### 8.3

Describe each of the following functions in English. Make sure to include a description of the domain and range of each function. Be as precise as possible; for example, “the argument must be a function of one numeric argument” is better than “the argument must be a function”.

***

~~~ scheme
(define (f a)
  (keep even? a))
~~~

The domain of the function is **non-negative integers** and **sentences containing integers**.
The range of the function is **integers** and **sentences containing integers**.

Given a non-negative integer (a “word”) as its argument, the function returns an integer (another “word”) comprising only the even numbers within the argument. Given a sentence containing integers as its argument, the function returns a sentence containing only the even numbers in the argument.

***

~~~ scheme
(define (g b)
  (every b '(blue jay way)))
~~~

The domain of the function is **selector functions** (see p.59). The range of the function is **sentences**.

Given a “selector” function as its argument, the function returns the result of the given function applied to the sentence `'(blue jay way)`.

***

~~~ scheme
(define (h c d)
  (c (c d)))
~~~
The function takes two arguments:

* the first, `c`, is a **selector function** (see p.59)
* the second, `d`, is a **word** or a **sentence**.

The range of the function is **words** and **sentences**.

Given a procedure and a word or sentence as its arguments, the procedure is applied to the word or sentence, and then applied again to the result, which is returned.
***

~~~ scheme
(define (i e)
  (/ (accumulate + e) (count e)))
~~~

The domain of the function is **integers** and **sentences containing numbers**. The range of the function is **numbers**.

Given a single integer, the function adds together each of the digits in the integer, and divides the result by the number of digits in the integer, returning the result.

Given a sentence containing one or more numbers, the function returns a number representing the average of the number(s).

***

~~~ scheme
accumulate
~~~
The function takes two arguments:

* the first is **an operator** or **a constructor function** (see p.61)
* the second is a **word** or a **sentence**.

The range of the function is **words** and **sentences**

Given a procedure and a word or sentence as its arguments, the procedure is applied to every element of the word or sentence like so:

* In the case that the argument contains one element, the procedure returns this element.
* If the argument contains more than one element, the procedure is applied to the last element and the second-to-last element; the procedure is then applied to this result and the third-to-last element and so on until every element has been worked through – from last to first – and the result is returned.

~~~ scheme
> (accumulate + 147)
  (+ 1 (accumulate + 47))
  (+ 1 (+ 4 (accumulate + 7)))
  (+ 1 (+ 4  7))
  (+ 1  11)
12

> (accumulate word '(ch or us))
  (word 'ch (accumulate word '(or us)))
  (word 'ch (word 'or (accumulate word 'us)))
  (word 'ch (word 'or  'us))
  (word 'ch  'orus)
'chorus
~~~

***

~~~ scheme
sqrt
~~~

The domain of the function is **non-negative numbers**.
The range of the function is **non-negative numbers**.

The function returns the square root of its argument.

***

~~~ scheme
repeated
~~~

The function takes two arguments:

* the first is **a procedure**
* the second is **a positive integer**.

The range of the function is **procedures**.

Given a procedure *f* and a positive integer *n* as its arguments, the result is a new procedure that invokes *f*, the original procedure, *n* times. (This resulting procedure can then be applied to an argument of its own.)
***

~~~ scheme
(repeated sqrt 3)
~~~

The domain and range of this function are the same as for `sqrt`.

Given a number as its argument, the function returns the square root of the square root of the square root of the number (or, the 8th root of the number).

~~~ scheme
> ((repeated sqrt 3) 256)
  (sqrt (sqrt (sqrt 256)))
  (sqrt (sqrt 16))
  (sqrt 4)
2
~~~
***

~~~ scheme
(repeated even? 2)
~~~

This function returns a procedure that applies the predicate `even?` to the result of applying `even?` to its argument.

*No matter what the argument, an error will be returned.*

The predicate `even?` expects an integer as its argument, and returns a boolean. Supplying a boolean as the argument to `even?` returns an error.

~~~ scheme
> ((repeated even? 2) 6)
  (even? (even? 6))
  (even? #t) ;; returns an error
~~~

***

~~~ scheme
(repeated first 2)
~~~

The domain of this function is **words** and **sentences**. The range is **words**.

This function returns a procedure that applies the procedure `first` to the result of applying `first` to its argument.

Given a sentence as its argument, the function returns the first letter of the first word.

~~~ scheme
> ((repeated first 2) '(my sentence))
  (first (first '(my sentence)))
  (first 'my)
m
~~~

Given a word as its argument, the function returns the first letter of the first letter of the word (which is redundant).

~~~ scheme
> ((repeated first 2) 'testing)
  (first (first 'testing))
  (first 't)
t
~~~

***

~~~ scheme
(repeated (repeated bf 3) 2)
~~~

The domain of this function is **words or sentences containing at least 6 elements**.

The range is **words** and **sentences**.

The function returns the seventh element of its argument.

~~~ scheme
> ((repeated (repeated bf 3) 2) 1234567)
  ((repeated bf 3) ((repeated bf 3) 1234567))
  ((repeated bf 3) (bf (bf (bf 1234567))))
  (bf (bf (bf      (bf (bf (bf 1234567))))))
  (bf (bf (bf      (bf (bf 234567)))))
  (bf (bf (bf      (bf 34567))))
  (bf (bf (bf      4567)))
  (bf (bf 567))
  (bf 67)
 7
~~~
