### 8.9

What procedure can you use as the first argument to `every` so that for any sentence used as the second argument, `every` returns that sentence?

What procedure can you use as the first argument to `keep` so that for any sentence used as the second argument, `keep ` returns that sentence?

What procedure can you use as the first argument to `accumulate` so that for any sentence used as the second argument, `accumulate` returns that sentence?

***

For `every`, we know the function will act on each word in the second argument, and return a sentence made up of the resulting words. We therefore want the first argument to be a procedure that will take a word and return it unchanged. The procedure `word` fits the bill:

~~~ scheme 
> (every word '(this is a sentence))
(this is a sentence)
~~~

(Alternatively, we could use `sentence` as the second argument – this would turn each word of the second argument into a single-word sentence, and return a sentence made up of them re-combined.)

For `keep`, we know the function will act on each word in the second argument, and return a sentence made up of each word for which the first argument, given that word as its argument, evaluates to `#t`. It turns out that in Scheme, a procedure itself counts as `#t`, so the first argument can be _any_ procedure, as long as it’s one that can take a word as its argument.

(If we wanted to supply a _predicate_, rather than a procedure, as the first argument to `keep`, then we could use `word?`.)

~~~ scheme
> (keep last '(this is a sentence))
(this is a sentence)
~~~

For `accumulate`, we have to specify that function should return a sentence accumulated from each word in the second argument. Therefore the procedure `sentence` can be used as the first argument. 

~~~ scheme
> (accumulate sentence '(this is a sentence))
(this is a sentence)
~~~