### 10.4

Here are some possible changes to the rules of tic-tac-toe:

* What if you could win a game by having three squares forming an L shape in a corner, such as squares 1, 2, and 4?
* What if the diagonals didn’t win?
* What if you could win by having four squares in a corner, such as 1, 2, 4, and 5?

Answer the following questions for each of these modifications separately: What would happen if we tried to implement the change merely by changing the quoted sentence of potential winning combinations in `find-triples`? Would the program successfully follow the rules as modified?

***

First, we assume that the intention is that an L-shape is an *additional* winning move (rather than a substitute for all the current possible winning moves).

We add the four triples `412`, `236`, `698`, and `874` to the sentence of possibilities in `find-triples`, and play a game:

    1)      2)      3)      4)      5)      6)      7)
    
    □ □ □   o □ □   o □ □   o □ □   o □ □   o □ □   o □ x
    □ x □   □ x □   x x □   x x o   x x o   x x o   x x o
    □ □ □   □ □ □   □ □ □   □ □ □   x □ □   x o □   x o □
    
The starting player, `x`, wins on the 7th move.

The die is cast for `o` when deciding the 6th move. The procedure `opponent-can-win` uses `i-can-win?` to find *two* winning triples …

 * the new L shape, `874`
 * the diagonal `357`

… and `choose-win` selects the `first` of these to block in square 8, leaving `x` the other winning triple. 

It turns out that, no matter the starting position (centre, corner, or side), the first player will always win.

Starting position in a corner:

    1)      2)      3)      4)      5)
    
    x □ □   x □ □   x x □   x x o   x x o
    □ □ □   □ o □   □ o □   □ o □   x o □
    □ □ □   □ □ □   □ □ □   □ □ □   □ □ □

Starting position on a side:
    
    1)      2)      3)      4)      5)
    
    □ □ □   □ □ □   x □ □   x □ □   x x □
    x □ □   x o □   x o □   x o □   x o □
    □ □ □   □ □ □   □ □ □   o □ □   o □ □

There is no change we can make to the logic of the program to address this.

***

Let’s look at the second modification, where the diagonals don’t count as a win. We remove the two triples `159` and `357` from the sentence of possibilities in `find-triples`, and play a game:

    1)      2)      3)      4)      5)      6)      7)      8)      9)
    
    □ □ □   o □ □   o □ □   o □ □   o □ □   o □ o   o x o   o x o   o x o
    □ x □   □ x □   □ x x   o x x   o x x   o x x   o x x   o x x   o x x
    □ □ □   □ □ □   □ □ □   □ □ □   x □ □   x □ □   x □ □   x o □   x o x
    
The game plays to a draw, as we would expect.

The logic of the program still holds. If we look at the first example on page 159 of *Simply Scheme*, the next move by `x` in turn 5 will still be to create a fork by moving into square `4`, leading to a win two moves later as expected.
    
    4)      5)      6)      7)
    
    x o □   x o □   x o □   x o □
    □ x □   x x □   x x o   x x o
    □ □ o   □ □ o   □ □ o   x □ o  

(Here, `can-i-fork?` uses `pivots` to find `4`. Diagonals no longer count as a win, so `7` is no longer found as a pivot). 

***

In the third modification, four squares in a corner count as a win. We add `1245`, `2356`, `4578`, and `5689` to the sentence of possibilities in (the no longer accurately named!) `find-triples`.

The program will not find a winning move without further modification. In the following game, it is `x` to move. The winning move, `2` should be returned by `i-can-win?`, but is not; instead, `i-can-win?` returns `#f`, leaving `opponent-can-win?` to return `8`.

    6)      7)
    
    x □ □   x □ □
    x x o   x x o
    o □ o   o x o

We can adjust `my-pair?` to allow for this winning situation by allowing 2 *or more* `appearances` of `me` in a triple:

~~~ scheme
(define (my-pair? triple me)
   (and (>= (appearances me triple) 2)              ;; changed '=' to '>=' 
        (= (appearances (opponent me) triple) 0)))
        
> (ttt 'x__xxoo_o 'x)
2
~~~