### 10.3

A real human playing tic-tac-toe would look at a board like this:

    o x o  
    o x x
    x o □

and notice that it's a tie, rather than moving in square 9. Modify `tie-game?` from Exercise 10.2 to notice this situation and return `#t`.

(Can you improve the program’s ability to recognize ties even further? What about boards with two free squares?) 

***

In the given example, the game is tied when:

* only 1 empty square remains; and
* a triple containing an empty square also contains an `x` and an `o`.

We can define a predicate `dud-triple?` to look for the latter case (if it finds one `x` and one `o`, it means the remaining square must be empty). 

In the example above, `dud-triple?` will return `#t` for triples `789`, `369`, and `159`.

If there are no “dud triples” that means that there must be a triple containing either:

* three of `x` or `o` (which we would have identified earlier using `already-won?`)
* two of `x` or `o`, plus an empty square (which means, without knowing whose turn it is, we cannot say that the game a tie).


For example, in the following case:

    x o x  
    x o x  
    o □ o  

… we cannot tell whether the game is tied, as `x` and `o` have both played 4 moves. If `x` goes next, the game is tied, but otherwise `o` wins. There are no dud triples.

In fact, if the game is tied after 8 moves, there will always be three dud triples. In the following case, there are two dud triples (`359` and `789`), and (without knowing whose turn it is) we cannot say that the game is tied:

    o x o  
    x o x  
    x o □  

So:

~~~ scheme
(define (tie-game? position)
  (and (= 1 (count (keep (lambda (x) (equal? '_ x)) position)))
       (= 3 (count (keep (lambda (triple) (dud-triple? triple)) (find-triples position))))))

(define (dud-triple? triple)
  (and (= (appearances 'x triple) 1)
       (= (appearances 'o triple) 1)))

> (tie-game? 'oxooxxxo_)
#t

> (tie-game? 'xoxxoxo_o)
#f
~~~

In the case that there are 2 free squares, the game is tied when:

 * only 2 empty squares remain; and
 * there are at least two “dud triples” containing 1 empty square, an `x`, and an `o`.

We can forget about the one remaining triple containing 2 empty squares, because it will be filled with an `x` and an `o` in the next two moves. We do however need to find more than one dud triple, as shown in the following case:

    x o □  
    x □ x  
    o o o  

Although there is one dud triple, `123`, the game is not tied as `x` can win on the next turn. 
 
We can therefore modify `tie-game?` to look for 2 or 1 empty squares, plus 2 or 3 dud triples respectively:
 
 ~~~ scheme
(define (tie-game? position)
  (let ((count-empty-squares (count (keep (lambda (x) (equal? '_ x)) position)))
        (count-dud-triples (count (keep (lambda (triple) (dud-triple? triple)) (find-triples position)))))
    (or (and (= count-empty-squares 2)
             (= count-dud-triples 2))
        (and (= count-empty-squares 1)
             (= count-dud-triples 3))
        (= count-empty-squares 0)))) ;; incorporate the definition from 10.2, although this presumes aready-won? has been checked!
 ~~~
 
Pleasingly, this solution is correct, whereas those devised by [pongsh](https://github.com/pongsh/simply-scheme-exercises/blob/master/10-tictactoe/10.3.scm) and [buntine](https://github.com/buntine/Simply-Scheme-Exercises/blob/master/10-example_tic-tac-toe/10-3.scm) are not!